# BIOMD0000000004: BIOMD0000000004

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000004.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000004.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import BIOMD0000000004 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


Goldbeter1991 - Min Mit Oscil, Expl Inact

This model represents the inactive forms of CDC-2 Kinase and Cyclin Protease
as separate species, unlike the ODEs in the published paper, in which the
equations for the inactive forms are substituted into the equations for the
active forms using a mass conservation rule M+MI=1,X+XI=1. Mass is still
conserved in this model through the explicit reactions M<->MI and X<->XI. The
terms in the kinetic laws are identical to the corresponding terms in the
kinetic laws in the published paper.

This model has been generated by MathSBML 2.4.6 (14-January-2005)
14-January-2005 18:37:35.503857.

This model is described in the article:

[A minimal cascade model for the mitotic oscillator involving cyclin and cdc2
kinase.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/1833774)

Goldbeter A.

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1991 Oct; 88(20):9107-11

Abstract:

A minimal model for the mitotic oscillator is presented. The model, built on
recent experimental advances, is based on the cascade of post-translational
modification that modulates the activity of cdc2 kinase during the cell cycle.
The model pertains to the situation encountered in early amphibian embryos,
where the accumulation of cyclin suffices to trigger the onset of mitosis. In
the first cycle ofthe bicyclic cascade model, cyclin promotes the activation
of cdc2 kinase through reversible dephosphorylation, and in the second cycle,
cdc2 kinase activates a cyclin protease by reversible phosphorylation. That
cyclin activates cdc2 kinase while the kinase triggers the degradation of
cyclin has suggested that oscillations may originate from such a negative
feedback loop [Félix, M. A., Labbé, J. C., Dorée, M., Hunt, T. & Karsenti, E.
(1990) Nature (London) 346, 379-382]. Thisconjecture is corroborated by the
model, which indicates that sustained oscillations of the limit cycle type can
arise in the cascade, provided that a threshold exists in the activation of
cdc2 kinase by cyclin and in the activation of cyclinproteolysis by cdc2
kinase. The analysis shows how miototic oscillations may readily arise from
time lags associated with these thresholds and from the delayed negative
feedback provided by cdc2-induced cyclin degradation. A mechanism for
theorigin of the thresholds is proposed in terms of the phenomenon of zero-
order ultrasensitivity previously described for biochemical systems regulated
by covalent modification.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000004](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000004) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


